WebService Testing (API Testing) using Rest-Assured.
----------------------------------------------------

WebService :

When 2 web application need to communicate to request and respond based on query.

Client - server architecture.

Client : service consumer which need to request the data / infomation from the server
Server : service provider which sources the response based on the request from a client.

Service provider will host the required information that can be fetched from a server on the another API (acts as a mediator between client and server)

The information hosted by the server can be in the form XML  / JSON format.

and the Client need to retrieve the information by sending query in a machine understandable language.


Server will host the information either in WSDL (Web Services Descriptive Language) and there will be an online registry called UDDI created to fetch the information from a WSDL which is in the XML format.


Medium : Http / internet
Format : XML / Json etc.


CRUD : Create / Retrieve / Update / Delete


Types of WebServices:

1. SOAP service : Simple Object Access Protocol

Medium : Http (POST method)
Format : XML 


W3C it is a community where the standards are pre-defined that are been categories into basice and advance.

Any web service that meets all the basic standards that are defined by the W3C internation body will be called as SOAP Webservice



2. REST service : Representation State Transfer.

Medium : Http (GET , POST , PUT, DELETE etc)
Format : XML / JSON / Text.


1. Uniform Interface
		1.1 Resources (Module)
		1.2 URi (uniform resource identifier): URL parsed to fetch the data as per the query
		1.3 HTTP method : GET / POST / PUT / DELETE etc.
2. statelessness
3. Cacheable
4. Layered
5. Code on demand.

Every HTTP methods will have a response code

Rest Assured is an open source API tool used to test the RESTful service.

Pre-reuisite :

We need to have an URI
HTTP method to be triggered
How to validate the response code.

------------------------------------------------------

Rest- Assured tool is a self-contained library that need to be configured into Eclipse IDE.


